README.md, before:

# CMPM-121-Final
Devlog Entry - [11/14/2025]

## Introducing the team

Tools Lead: Logan Marshall

Engine Lead: Jayson Boyanitch

Design Lead: Gabriel Groenwold

Testing Lead: Andrew Hernandez

## Tools and materials

Engine: Phaser3 framework, three.js, ammo.js, enable3d. We will be using Phaser3 as the main engine for our project but since that does not come with any automatic 3d/physics support We will be including three.js as well as ammo.js to the project for the added support. Phaser will be used for features handling the main game loop, scene management, asset loading, user input, and 2D UI elements. 
three.js - https://threejs.org/ will be used for handling all the 3d rendering, models, lighting, and camera managment. ammo.js https://github.com/kripken/ammo.js/ will be used for handling all of the 3d physics simulations such as, collision detection and rigid body dynamics. Luckly for us there is a plugin called enable3d that works as the "glue" between these tools which allows for all of these frameworks to talk to each other properly.

Language: Javascript, HTML, JSON

Tools: VS Code, Piskel, Aseprite, Blender, Figma, Photoshop

Generative AI: We want to use Gemini for referencing documentation of the different engines, and maybe Copilot for debugging.

Outlook

(Give a short section on your outlook for the project. What are you hoping to accomplish? What do you think will be the riskiest or most challenging part? What do you hope to learn?)

[Your text here]

Commit message:

added new devlog for 11/21/25
Updated devlog entries and added reflections on project progress.

README.md, after:

# CMPM-121-Final

## Devlog Entry - [11/14/2025]

### Introducing the team

Tools Lead: Logan Marshall

Engine Lead: Jayson Boyanitch

Design Lead: Gabriel Groenwold

Testing Lead: Andrew Hernandez

### Tools and materials

Engine: Phaser3 framework, three.js, ammo.js, enable3d. We will be using Phaser3 as the main engine for our project but since that does not come with any automatic 3d/physics support We will be including three.js as well as ammo.js to the project for the added support. Phaser will be used for features handling the main game loop, scene management, asset loading, user input, and 2D UI elements. 
three.js - https://threejs.org/ will be used for handling all the 3d rendering, models, lighting, and camera managment. ammo.js https://github.com/kripken/ammo.js/ will be used for handling all of the 3d physics simulations such as, collision detection and rigid body dynamics. Luckly for us there is a plugin called enable3d that works as the "glue" between these tools which allows for all of these frameworks to talk to each other properly.

Language: Javascript, HTML, JSON

Tools: VS Code, Piskel, Aseprite, Blender, Figma, Photoshop

Generative AI: We want to use Gemini for referencing documentation of the different engines, and maybe Copilot for debugging.

Outlook: We're pretty positive about the outlook of this assignment. The jump from 2d to 3d will be challenging to say the least, especially since we're using a framework and not an actual game engine. Regardless, the actual mechanics of the game are easy enough to code, so it shouldn't be too hard once we get a handle on the difference in syntax.

## Devlog Entry - [11/21/2025]

### How We Satisfied The Software Requirements

To start, we used the Phaser3 framework as a base engine, which does not have 3d capabilities on its own. We imported the frameworks three.js and Enable3d for 3d development, and ammo.js for physics. The prototype we created using these frameworks involves the player needing to push a block to the edge of a platform in order to reach the end of the level. Thus, the player must use physics in a 3d environment to solve a puzzle. The player can fail by pushing the cube off the platform, or by missing the jump themselves. If the player fails or succeeds, they recieve feedback in the form of text on the screen. Additionally, we use Husky as a linter to check our code before commits, and Github Actions to deploy a playable version of our game.  

### Reflection

We stayed pretty loyal to our original goal. Everybody stayed true to their roles for the most part, except Jayson and Andrew blended their duties together at times. The frameworks were difficult to use due to the complicated nature of making sure all the different plugins worked together. It's hard to say whether we should've used different engines, because we haven't used any other frameworks that supported 3d game develpment. However, the 3d capabilities of the framework did feel somewhat disjointed, which makes us interested in shopping around for other frameworks that perhaps had 3d capabilities in mind as the main focus, rather than as a plugin.
